it's easy
to give advice
on the internet
because you
as the broadcaster
do not have to live with the
consequences
and there was a time when this same game
was being played over the radio
people phoning in and asking for help
with their problems over the radio
was a smaller number of people
making a lot more money and it seems so
easy
for people in the audience to judge you
as a broadcaster to be a good person or
to judge what you say
as good advice
without ever giving
the slightest thought
to the person you're advising
or the real world outcomes
of the advice you're giving
hypothetically
let's just say i talk to
a father
who speaks spanish
as his first language
father
wife kids they all speak spanish as
their primary language most the time but
they know
for their kids for their future as a
family what really matters is having the
children grow up
with the ability to speak english at a
very high level to use the english
language in a sophisticated way and
let's just say this guy
whatever his situation may be it doesn't
really matter whether he's someone who
has immigrated to
the united states or canada or if he's
living
in a spanish-speaking country but
nevertheless for his children's
particular education and career path
this is this is his concern
let's say this guy comes to me for
advice or he just complains
he just talks to me and complains and
say to him look
here's what you have to do
every day in the morning
before you go to work
you are going to download
on your phone
the youtube video for the morning news
in english
now i don't know when you're going to
listen to it maybe it's while you're
riding the bus to work like i don't know
this guy's situation hypothetically
maybe it's during your lunch break
at work you are going to listen to the
news in english you're going to have a
pen and paper and you are going to note
down
the words and concepts and phrases and
idioms that you don't know
that are tricky for you and you're going
to look them up and you're gonna learn
what they really mean and once in a
while not every day once in a while
there will be some chapter of history
that comes up in the news that you
didn't know about and you read the
wikipedia article do a little bit of
reading
outside of the news
every night
at the dinner table
you sit
with your wife and kids
and you watch the news together
you don't watch the nightly news
you watch the news that you downloaded
this morning
and that you have already watched
yourself maybe once
maybe two times where you've already
looked up
the
vocabulary tell them you've seen it
before
keep it a secret
they're they're going to be surprised
they're going to be oh wow it seems like
you already know all the difficult words
that came up
in the news doesn't matter
let them voice
their opinions chit chat with them about
what they say what they think in english
right and do it
seven
nights a week
never skip a night
and for your kids maybe they speak to
all their friends in spanish like maybe
the only language used around the dinner
table otherwise is spanish but whatever
that is let's say it's one hour a night
maybe some nights it's 45 minutes maybe
sometimes it's half an hour sometimes
the news is more interesting there's
less those discussions
you have with your kids over years
it's going to result in you
raising your level of sophistication in
english language it's going to result in
your kids
raising their level of sophistication
english language it's going to result in
your kids getting to know you
in a way they otherwise wouldn't it's
going to result in you getting to know
your kids
in a way you otherwise wouldn't you're
going to hear their
reactions to political things in the
news and sometimes your kids are going
to ask questions like what what a crazy
law how can that be illegal when this
other thing is illegal and maybe you've
already looked it up on wikipedia and
you say oh yeah you know it's a funny
law that was passed 150 years ago and
still nobody has changed it and maybe
you say well you know that's an
interesting point kid i'm going to look
that up on wikipedia tomorrow and
tell you about it when i get home from
work
now think about the value
of that language learning
exercise of that educational device
night after night after night after
years think about how much you have to
pay
someone else to do it for you or what it
would be worth if you could
pay someone else to do it for you okay
what you are doing with your kids and
what you are learning yourself
i can't say it's invaluable
but like this would be tens of thousands
of dollars worth of education this is so
much better than what you're going to
get in
language courses the way they're taught
at a university where it does indeed
cost you
tens of thousands of dollars and without
digressing into my experience with
language education and universities
let's just say
i am sadly in a position to know
let's just say i know a family of
russian immigrants who have the opposite
problem this is this is less
hypothetical really neither of these
examples is entirely hypothetical these
all relate to real people i've known it
the real world let's say i know a family
who have migrated from russia
to canada
and the father of the family is
completely fluent in russian he speaks
at a really high level
but the wife and kids that either speak
no russian at all or they can kind of
say hello they can kind of say a few
things they maybe have some experience
hearing the language maybe spoken by
their grandmother or something but they
can't really respond
in complete sentences now what if i give
the exact same advice
you know
inside out and backwards i say hey look
every day before you go to work you
download the morning news in russia
because your kids have grown up
completely fluent in english they're
going to school in english all their
friends speak english inside the house
they speak to their mom in english they
speak to you in english that's not the
problem
the problem is they have no engagement
with the russian language
right
and you download this you listen to it
before you go home to eat dinner whether
that's during your lunch break or some
other time you are listening to the news
you're noting down maybe what you think
are difficult idioms
or concepts vocabulary terms of phrase
and then you're going to watch the news
with them i presume while you eat dinner
so that you're going to talk it through
with them you're going to let them voice
their opinions
debate with you debate amongst
themselves
and this way you're going to have a have
a bilingual family
isn't it easy for all of you right now
to sit here in the audience and say wow
that's really good advice
it might be really easy for you to even
get some kind of sense of my moral
character that i'm a really good guy
because oh i have really good
motivations wow what a great guy what
great advice like there are all kinds of
kind of
positive generous
things you might be thinking about
what's the problem
you don't know
who
i'm giving advice to and you don't know
the outcomes you don't know the
consequences and none of us
none of us
have to deal with a consequence
how rare is it for anyone whether
they're doing
health advice like workout exercise diet
language learning advice political
advice
how rare is it to really deal with the
outcomes of the advice that you give and
a lot of us
a lot of us had a father
who tried
to sit and watch the news with us in
whatever language in our first language
or some other language
and
the result was
that we regarded our own father
as insane
we regarded our own father as
an overbearing
bullying
ignorant
madman
that instead of creating closer bonds of
you know love and respect
within the family this was deeply
alienating it resulted in the children
hating the father
and the father hating the children
everyone becoming aware of the
generation gap
in political values
now some of you have no idea what i'm
talking about some of you are sitting
there thinking oh well my dad was a
great guy it would have been really
wonderful some of you are thinking that
your dad spoke russian or spoke spanish
and you wish you'd learned
more from him and this this sounds
really great okay
was your father homophobic
some of us had parents who were
really homophobic and then we grew up
going to a different school in a
different time with different political
sensitivities did your father
believe in the moon landing
so people had parents who were born
conspiracy they think the moon landing
never happened what did your father say
to you about hiv aids
what if your father was a communist what
if your father was a neo-nazi like a lot
of people have parents
with beliefs that you know when you're a
child it's an exaggeration to say your
parents beliefs
contrast with your own because if you're
at such an early stage of development
normally what you're seeing is that your
parents beliefs clash with what your
school teacher tells you your parents
beliefs clash with what you you hear
from the television news
if you're a child who reads a newspaper
you know
and uh
you know it's not enough
to follow up with someone by email which
is what most of us do social media
influencers no matter how large or small
our fame is and guys there's a lot of
money in uh in giving
advice this one girl i've been shouting
out on my patreon i'm sorry to say girl
she's a middle-aged woman
who will give you uh
diet advice on being a vegan for
399 dollars a month well if you've got
10 clients
that's real money there's another one
who charges even more that i discovered
recently
um i discovered it for this reason i was
like well if i have if i have people
mind if you want this kind of thing can
i can i recommend this person
the one who charges more though she has
formal university credentials and this
stuff just interestingly but you know
you can charge people 500 a month and
you can charge people 500 a session
to talk to them to motivate to motivate
them to give them advice okay
if you ask them to follow up with you
afterward like you know you want an
email back saying that they lost 20
pounds or you want an email back from
the parents saying oh yeah now my kid
can speak this language so much better
you want some kind of
testimonial
do you think you'll ever
learn
what you would learn by actually sitting
in the room
and watching them eat dinner together
and watching them sit in front of the
news
right
what you'd pick up on
in that room
the reality is
the advice i have just given
would work wonderfully
if your child
was like me
i was a highly intellectually demanding
child
i don't say highly intellectual i say
intellectually demanding i asked a lot
of questions and i had very combative
very active
debates with my parents from an
incredibly early
age i was what you'd call an actively
engaged
learner a lot of kids aren't
a lot of kids sit looking down at their
shoes
being ashamed of themselves and not
participating they're let's not get into
the full range of negative behaviors
that are possible where you can't get
your kid to participate you can't get
your kid to respond as a described
hypothetically this being possibly a
wonderful exercise for the right kid
the method i've just described would
work wonderfully if your father
were the kind of guy i am
and there are a whole lot of different
characteristics that go into that
including
having the detachment to set your own
political views aside
right like that you're you're not just
gonna sit and rant
at the news reader that what they're
saying is propaganda and it's crazy but
that you know you're actually you know i
may have strongly held views for example
on
the war in afghanistan and my girlfriend
melissa gets to hear me ranting at the
news i do i indulge in these kinds of
theatrics and say what an imbecile the
person is okay if i'm sitting with my
daughter or if in future i have another
child hypothetically you know
i've got to put all that aside and sit
there and say oh so that's interesting
this is what they said about afghanistan
why do you think they said that you know
when you have to
you know if your kid is eight years old
at an eight-year-old level break it down
and hear their answer and you're not
you know
you're not imposing your character over
the news you're not imposing what you're
hearing onto what they're hearing you
get to go through the wonder and the
curiosity and and confusion with them
okay it's not gonna work
for every parent
it's not gonna work for every child
i
don't
want to admit to myself
how
few children are capable of benefiting
from this
i want to believe
that i live in a world where like 90
percent of kids
this would be great for and it's
probably not even five percent
i don't want to admit to myself
how many parents are either
intellectually incapable of doing this
or emotionally
incapable of doing this
i don't
want to admit to myself i would love to
believe in
the illusory world or every father and
every grandfather is capable with real
warmth and generosity of spirit of
preparing this kind of exercise frankly
even in their first language and their
mother tongue let alone their their
second language and really putting in
the work and really caring and really
helping the next generation learn how to
listen to and talk about politics
develop advanced ability in the idioms
this way
what percentage of parents
are capable of that really and if i
don't think about a hypothetical parent
think about actual people
and actual parents i've known
face to face
how many of them could possibly do it
and the the answer is like zero
so is it is it good advice
or is it bad advice if your
understanding of good advice is
pandering to the crowd
if if i'm trying to convince you guys to
donate money to my patreon account or
pay for my monthly course i could give a
monthly course on parenting guys
what's that worth
399 a month
scott sky's the limit i consider the
whole philosophy of education at least
one chapter of my book is about
philosophy education i think i think
more than one chapter uh deals oh yeah
oh sure i can present myself as a guru
and i can present this kind of advice
that makes me sound
morally good and maybe in a sense for
you listening to it you feel
morally good and you recognize it in
this this detached way
as good advice because you're not
thinking about the people
implementing it and what it would be
like for you to sit there at that dinner
table
now i don't think i need to digress in
how this works for everything from
quitting smoking quitting alcohol
quitting video games to
you know
weight loss
gaining muscle
you know diet and exercise this this
kind of advice
um
if the advice
you're giving
is not working out for people
can you expect them
to send you an email
that really breaks down that really
shares that really explains where
they're going wrong
how and why it is
that this this just isn't going to work
out for them
um
could an email from a former client
someone who who paid you
could it tell you what you need to know
in the same way that just sitting with
them i mean frankly sitting with them at
the dinner table
sitting with them when they when they go
to the gym
where you can see
the advices is not going to help them
now physical exercises is one of the
easiest things
to give advice on but what i see again
and again
is a certain kind of
highly athletic person
giving advice that could only
possibly be useful for people who have a
whole lot in common
with themselves you know oh we'll just
wake up in the morning and jog before
you go to work
why why do you think that doesn't work
why do you think people don't do it
maybe you can't relate maybe like maybe
you can't do what i just did and admit
to yourself
a really large percentage of people
cannot use that advice will not use that
advice maybe you can't admit to yourself
like hey in this world like like i wish
i lived in a world where 90 of people
could just take this advice and do it
right but the real percentage
is much less
and of course those aren't the people
who are going to pay you
for your advice
shout out to everybody in the audience
we got 20 people here if we had 20
thumbs up some more people might join us
from my perspective this can be a real
short live stream i don't always have to
go for two hours and three hours these
things also if melissa wants to jump in
and and make a comment so what up james
what up frida what up william what up uh
yeah chris i've seen you here before so
these are the people commenting of
course lydia lydia
lydia has been watching the channel what
seven years some of that shout out to
lydia you know
um
right so frida's raising nutrition point
i want to talk about a sec
melissa anything you want to say you've
just been laughing and smiling a lot
yeah i think it's been very interesting
it's different than where i thought it
was going to go so yeah i want to hear
free to ask you
nacho in the crowd
another longtime viewer a long time
supporter here
oh
um
humility
and risk taking
and recklessness
humility and being willing to deal with
the consequences of
taking a risk
i was listening to one of these guys
while i was working out at the gym
who gives a lot of advice
on the internet
and i was listening to a youtube video
that was really criticizing him very
harshly so i might as well show them out
it was a youtube video harshly
criticizing gary vee so his full name is
gary vaynerchuk i believe
but his youtube channel he goes by his
garyvee and he is a mass phenomenon in
giving advice
he's appeared on the joe rogan show he's
appeared on broadcast television he's
become a mainstream icon
in what could be frankly called the
advice
industry you know
i commented to my girlfriend melissa
while we were both at the gym
exercising i said you know it's really
easy to ridicule this advice
that he's giving
but i have known specific people
there are some people there are specific
types of people
for whom this is
good and necessary
advice
but it's just ridiculous
it's just surreal to give this advice to
anyone and everyone and this guy's
method whether he's doing like a
phone-in talk show which he does he has
people just call him up
you know he listens to them talk for
about a sentence and a half and then
jumps to giving the advice right or
someone's this live q a with an audience
once in a while i think somebody has
written him an email or something but
for the most part it's on the basis of
no knowledge of this person no knowledge
of their character or their behaviors or
their traits like no knowledge for
example if if they're lazy or
hard-working some people are lazy some
people have obsessive-compulsive
disorder you know what i mean
okay i've got to do this give a brief
digression now
one of my ex-girlfriends
who will remain unspecified
her mother
joined a crazy cult
in india that's my opinion she didn't
refer to it as a crazy cult herself she
referred to it as a dharma group or some
some craft like this and she actually
went to india and lived in the
lived in the ashram as they like to say
and by the way it's one of these groups
in india where for some reason
everything is conducted in english it's
it's getting money out of white people
that's the reality you know so it's an
all english language spiritual retreat
and ashram and you know what their whole
spiritual practice was
their whole spiritual practice had to do
with
focusing on undertaking an action
while not caring
about the outcomes that you're you're
supposed to just learn to appreciate the
process
without having attachment to the to the
product or the outcome
so and this involved giving them tasks
that were
impossible and pointless
uh like wrapping and unwrapping mangoes
like you have a whole cart with hundreds
and hundreds of members or thousands
wrapping and unwrapping them with
with saran wrap this is a spiritual
practice and you know so i'm having this
described to me by my girlfriend's
mother
would this actually be helpful for some
incredibly rare personality type someone
with a particular type of obsessive
compulsive disorder and is it possible
that the original guru spiritual guru
who founded this ashram that he had this
obsessive-compulsive disorder where like
you get over it by wrapping and
unwrapping mangoes doing a whole bunch
of other pointless and impossible uh
activities then learning to set aside
your attachment to uh to the outcomes of
your action but for how many people
like is it 99 of people or 99.9 percent
of people would this be a completely
fruitless comple fruitless no pun
intended
a completely pointless
activity right
and then of course you think about the
method of recruitment and how these cult
groups operate
um
and what i'm saying in this video is i
don't think in the 21st century this is
the exception to the rule
i think this is the rule
like people commit to giving a certain
kind of advice
first and foremost that's their sense of
mission that's their destiny like for
the person doing the broadcasting and
soon enough they have a whole you know
codery of kind of employees and
colleagues putting together these
touring shows or they give advice and so
on everyone gets committed to the
message everyone gets committed to the
gospel if you like to the advice that is
being given
with no thought whatsoever
applied to the particular people
receiving the vice the advice let alone
evaluating the outcomes
anyways just a couple hours ago i'm at
the gym with
melissa
i say you know okay so listening to this
criticism of gary vee
garyvee is a business impresario and a
self-declared millionaire
i have no reason to think he's not a
multi-millionaire by the way but anyway
a very wealthy person who claims to give
you the keys to success and so on you
know and one of the things he tells
people
again and again and again advice he
gives to people again and again again is
you should never take a holiday
you should never take a vacation you
shouldn't take any time
for yourself you should wake up every
day and and hustle like dawn told us
until you're completely
exhausted you should work incredibly
hard
and he's given this advice to anybody
and everybody so sometimes it's just
like it's the same format i have here he
just sits down in front of a camera and
speaks to you an unknown person in the
audience it's just telling you to work
as hard as you possibly can from the
moment you wake up to when you go with
sleep and never stop and never take a
vacation and just give it 110 all the
time he doesn't even know what you're
working on he doesn't know you know what
are you doing like you know
no nuance nothing no way relative uh to
the particular person
and sometimes he's giving this advice
relative to a particular
person who's phoned him like he does a
phone show or someone who stood up in
the audience and asked the question and
i'm not saying that's the hate on the
guy but most of the time the person
doesn't get to finish their question
like people stand at the eye and say hey
you know i've been trying for a few
years to be successful in real estate
and you know i haven't really and he
says let me tell you my you know he
jumps right in like you know he's not
really interested in hearing your story
or what's holding you back or something
he's just looking for the
pretense for him to say something he
said with minor variations a hundred
times before to give you the same advice
he'd give he'd give anyone else okay
well you know
i can't sit here and say to you that
this kind of work works so hard that you
pass out you know advice i can't say
that's bad advice
for everyone right i'll give you you
know i can't say that i feel that
growing up with my generation i grew up
with the kurt cobain generation i grew
up with the nirvana generation i grew up
with a whole generation of people who
really glamorized giving up and not
trying hard i have known people who
could really use the advice of someone
sitting there and talking to them and
saying look
what if you gave it a hundred percent
what if you worked so hard at this that
you broke down weeping you know what i
mean
and i'm not saying this to insult you
guys i don't know who's in the audience
now again if you guys can hit the thumbs
up some more people will join the
conversation while it's happening just
makes it more entertaining more people
will discover the video later too
but you know you might not know what
it's like to really push yourself to
that ragged edge where you're learning
as much as you can possibly do you're
working as much as you possibly can and
where you're at the end of it you're
trembling or you're even like weeping
like you're not even sad you're weeping
out of you know nervous exhaustion
you're you're weeping just because
you're so depleted and broken down
having given it you know 110 percent uh
you're cracking up you know in in plain
english now i i have various memories of
of doing that i remember one brief
period where i had an airplane ticket to
cambodia i was going to cambodia alone
and i knew i was going to have to get
off that plane with all my money and
cash on me i was going to walk the
streets and rent an apartment i was
gonna go through a whole bunch of things
i was gonna have to speak to landlords
in cambodia
so i'm working so hard to raise my level
of spoken cambodian and i'm honestly
it's not even setting an alarm i'm just
waking up whether it's at 4am or 5am or
6am i'm waking up whenever i wake up a
nervous wreck and i'm pouring it on as
hard as i freaking can sitting there
completely alone nobody talking to me
nobody helping me alone working on the
language and really giving up i can
remember you know cracking up like
emotionally getting cracked up with this
because i was trying in some number of
days to raise my level of ability in in
the cambodian language which is not an
easy language
um and i have very bad materials to work
with and so on too not worth not worth
filling on those details you know there
are different specific
you know obviously short periods of time
i can remember of really pushing the
limit in terms of how many hours i can
work for for intellectual work
and
nobody nobody can do that for 10 years
or something
you can do you can do it and some of you
might not
know what that's like
i had a girlfriend
many many years ago she was blonde you
might have heard of her she's called my
blonde ex-girlfriend she's mentioned in
a few different youtube videos
and you know um
basically during the whole
relationship or the main part of the
relationship we were really living
together like as if we were married you
know we were sharing an apartment living
together closely you know she wanted to
become a painter a modern painter
not a house painter you know
she wanted to do modern art
um as a creative artist
and i can remember saying to her
really as nicely as possible i wasn't
being a kind of dramatic showman like
gary vee i wasn't even being as dramatic
as i'm being now on camera i remember
saying to her look
you know
i come home every day i had a full-time
job i come home every day i rented this
apartment for you i got this studio i
bought all these materials for you i did
i literally bought like the easel and
the canvas and the paint and stuff
because you say
this is what you want to do and i see
that you're not
working i see that you're not
making progress or when you are
it's like one hour here or there that
you're putting in if you want to be a
successful painter
you are competing with people who have
wanted this and have worked so
hard at it since they were 11 years old
all right so here you are i forget let's
say she was 24 at the time something
like that 24 25. you know you're coming
in relatively late at the game
and you have to work twice as hard as
everyone else
just to catch up with them
over like the next 10 years
if you think about
how many hours you spend drawing how
many hours do you spend painting
practicing the art practicing the craft
if you like
if you only work twice as hard as they
do you know they start at age 11 you're
starting at h it's 24 right
how hard are you gonna have to work in
10 years to catch up
to be
competitive
now i gave i gave different examples
then that i would give today so let's
just be trying to you know
i'm a much older man now i use different
kinds of examples but i think you know
one of the examples i gave was talking
about being a pilot being like an
airline pilot an army pilot or any other
kind of pilot because i know that that's
one job where they actually record how
many hours you've flown even at the
earliest stages of being
you know practicing to become policy
look today
at the time i was the same age i was i
was slightly younger than her so i was
24 and she was 25 or i was 23 and she
was 24 or some of that we had this
conversation you know i said look if i
decide today to become a pilot
i've got to compete with guys
who joined the air force cadets when
they were 14 years old 15 years old
started flying at 16 years old
right i can't just do the bare minimum
maybe they can like maybe they're my age
they don't really have to put in the
time anymore they don't have to work
that much anymore they're at a point
where they can kind of coast along with
the level of effort they're making not
me
i've got to work twice as hard i've got
to work 10 times as hard i've got it i
remember i used this term all the time
with her i said you've got to do kind of
proof of genius
level effort you've got to put in a
level of effort where you're like
proving your genius you're you're
knocking yourself out and i know i use
this example in discussion time because
i was really doing it i had a full-time
job but like before i went to work after
i came home from work i was working on
this ancient dead language called pali
it's like look you know
i imagined there were all kinds of
talented people in this field had been
working really hard for many years and
at a high level of ability in the
language i later learned that was not
true there's almost nobody with reading
comprehension of pali all the people who
claim to have ability and pali as a
language they're basically frauds i
don't know if i can think of a single
exception i'd have to think for a while
if there were any scholars who were not
frauds about their level of
comprehension of that language um
but most of the people including people
with phds including buddhist monks so on
and so forth it's like look i'm coming
into this field of study late after
getting a university degree in political
science i didn't come out i wasn't
already committed to buddhist studies
when i was 16. well there are other
people who've been doing this since they
were 16. i can't just do one hour here
and there i can't just scrape by i have
to work twice as hard as everyone else
or i have to work 10 times as hard i
have to put in a level of effort and and
risk you know where there's really some
some proof of genius involved okay
here's the thing all right
giving advice
it involves humility it involves the
advisor involves the broadcaster
involves the person in my position
really having the humility to listen to
the other person
letting them
tell you who they are letting them tell
you what their problem is letting them
tell you what they deserve
and also you have to have the humility
to let them
show you
right they have to demonstrate
you have to be able to just sit there
quietly and watch right there's there's
real humility involved
you also have to have
the arrogance to take risks right you
have to be willing to take a risk to say
to someone you know even just what i
said look i come home from work i was
literally working at the office
come home from the office
and i look in at your studio you know
which has this separate room for
painting
and i can see ain't nothing moved you
know what i mean like there's no new
painting there's no new drawing you're
not making progress you're not working
you're not putting the time you know
and when you really know somebody and
you're dealing with them face to face
what do you risk
yeah will you risk them breaking down
crying in front of you and you risk you
have to hold them and hug them
while they weep
all over you and blow their nose on your
sleeve or whatever else
right like on a on a very basic level
you're risking dealing with the
emotional consequences of them
recognizing that even if in some sense
you are giving good advice you're giving
advice that maybe a better person would
follow or a better person wouldn't even
need
maybe a better person would already know
this maybe a better person would just
sit back right on you know that's that's
what i've been saying all these years
too you know what i'm on the same
wavelength i'm on the same level as you
someone else will come back this way and
know this is the person who needs the
advice but it is as the proverb goes
it's the good advice that they just
can't take
you know did you want do you want to
jump in
stand up
or just speak
so i've been thinking about something as
you've been
talking about this
there is a scene from the movie donnie
darko
yes that
i think is relevant to this discussion
in donnie darko there is a self-help
guru who becomes very popular in their
town
and he gives a presentation to an
audience of teenagers
his main advice is that everything wrong
with you all your problems are based in
fear
so his main goal is to solve your
problems
through
solving what you're afraid of and
getting to the root problems of your
fear
the scene is great because he invites
these kids down and they talk about
their problems and they're on stage and
and talking about these difficulties in
their life there's one kid who's chubby
and he said he gets bullied by people
and
the self-help guru says you know you you
know kind of like gary vee here like at
the first moment
he says no i know what your problem is
you know you're afraid
the reason why this scene is uh
important is because uh donnie darko the
character played by jake gyllenhaal he
he gets up on the microphone
and he just boldly says
you know what this self-help guru i
think he's the spawn of satan i think
he's lying to you
kid your problem is that you're chubby
if you want to stand up to your bullies
you have to lose weight you have to get
fit you have to like
you know he's really honest and like you
say he's taking risks all right um
and the kid might break down crying
right right like that's that's really
tough
um
but that's what it takes if you're
trying to give advice to people and
sometimes it is so obvious i mean just
when you look at i i really appreciate
what you said about observing people if
you observe them in their environment
right talking to family or something you
get to see these things that they might
not have the attachment or ability to
cope with if somebody just points it out
yeah and and including you know the ways
in which they're stupid
people are stupid and lazy
now you know i've said this about my
father before so if you've been watching
my channel for a million years you
already know this but for me it's a
memory that really stands out that he
took like 10 years to read one
book it was james joyce's ulysses right
now you know
um my father had some intellectual
advantages in life he was very good at
memorizing factoids
um
something some little short piece of
information so like
the exact size
of a parking space for a normal car
versus a wheelchair disabled car like
crap like that he really memorized like
i don't even know it was an effort or
not like i don't know if he just did
that without trying very likely he did
he did try but he'd always been gifted
at memorizing factoids this way
and just to give an example uh you know
just assuming he wasn't lying to me he
lied a lot but i'm gonna presume this
particular story was the truth
um
he took a course on geology in
universities this is a ba level uh
course on geology and he only took it
because he wanted to raise his grade
point average raise his total like to
get an a plus and a course and he had
absolutely no interest in geology he
didn't want like you know it was just to
get high scores in the exams and he felt
this was a course where he could do that
he just had to memorize the names of
different kinds of rocks and chemicals
and there's a certain number of kind of
factoids
and he got the highest
score on the exam that anyone had ever
gotten since they opened the university
and they've been using the same exam for
40 years or some some long period of
time using the same standardized exam
for geology and
he said the professor approached him and
asked if he would be willing to to
switch his major and the professor said
that he would personally support my
father if you wanted to start a career
as a geologist because he was so
impressed by
the exam and my father said then this
part was not a lie my father said that
he did not have any understanding of
what he had memorized and i that was
really true of him he was that kind of
like he could
memorize and recite things that he
really didn't understand what he was
saying so just mentioned this was kind
of guy my father was
but like
dude like 10 years that's how long it
took you to read this one book like like
he did so little reading like so my
point is in a lot of ways he was a very
lazy very stupid guy
um and again i've said this you know one
of the things i said directly to my
father
was i know you the way nobody else knows
you because
my father was a character like gary v he
was a character like gary vaynerchuk who
stood on a stage and gave people advice
he really was his career
i said these other people they see you
this way these other people they see you
this way but i know you as the guy who
would fall asleep on the couch watching
baseball that's who he really was he was
a guy who would lie on the couch and
watch baseball
and when he was overseas like when he
was in europe the thing he was most
excited to do and it was quite expensive
he would buy a copy
of an american newspaper like the new
york times the new york times is
expensive in america but it's actually
much more expensive
if you're in london or paris this is
still true but it was true back then too
like to buy a copy of the new york times
in some other city in europe and he
would buy it
just to turn to the last page and
there'd be a little section like this
which would be the baseball scores and
he'd sit there and stare at that
excitedly and very often the rest of the
newspaper didn't get read or was barely
as you buy it just to sit there and he'd
sit there and look at it and talk he was
totally engrossed and this is him over
50 years old this is a fully grown
maybe some of these memories are from
his first words that's that's who my
father was
so like you know again when you say
someone stupid was this one adjective to
describe a complex person and a complex
set of problems i mean i think you guys
just from this description you guys have
never met my father you know
you already have a real insight into
what this guy's problems are and why he
isn't learning and why he doesn't
develop and what is what is advantages
and disadvantages okay now what advice
you know are you are you going to give
him
now
look you know for me
this relates to the recurring theme of
my not
endorsing particular books on youtube i
do book reviews i do read books
you'll never see me out here just saying
oh this is a good book
that everyone should read you know i had
a whole bunch of email from this uh
this on youtube called um
vegan foot soldier you know so some of
this is on my blog if you guys don't
know
um
it's not fascinating but he's a he's a
rival youtuber i suppose of he's vegan
but he doesn't
he doesn't feel that he and i have too
much in common
and
you know
there are many things about what he
wrote to me that are striking and absurd
and risible and make me laugh
but the final message i sent to the guy
was very sincere i said look
have you read
karl popper's book the poverty of
historicism now i'll type out the title
because i know it's a really weird title
poverty of historicism there is only one
book with this crazy title
and i'm certain i have a i have a video
talking about it on my youtube channel
i'll post that for you guys too
you know and what i said to him was you
know look um
i didn't say what i really meant because
i didn't want to be too insulting what i
really meant to say was you
fundamentally don't understand what
philosophy is you keep kind of preaching
philosophy he kept insulting me claiming
that i don't know anything about
philosophy he said that i'm at a high
school level in philosophy that i'm not
even at a first year university
student's level he was using his
supposedly advanced knowledge of
philosophy to snub me and insult me and
miraculously i seem to be immune to this
kind of humiliation especially when it's
coming from someone like him
this did not upset me uh in any way
but you know what i said to him because
i was trying not to be
overly insulting i said look you know
philosophy
is a problem problem-solving method it's
about solving problems and i didn't say
this but my point was like it's not
about
bullying and intimidating people with
ostentatious use of formal logic like oh
well you failed to substantiate
proposition three it's not the way it's
not the way people who really know
philosophy talk you know it's not
this is not really what philosophy is
you know and i said to him look you know
have you thought about reading this
particular book karl popper's the
poverty of historicism i said to him it
could really change your life
um
how many years have i known that guy
before i recommended this book
you know
more than five years he and i have known
each other you know
obviously there are some ways in which
he's a stranger to me i don't know him
at all but there are other ways in which
having known him for five years having
had so many years of harassment from him
so many insults and so on both publicly
and and privately from him against me
and seeing now the way he's building up
his own ego and what he thinks about
philosophy and what he says about
philosophy it's like well look i know a
particular book that's going to
challenge what you think philosophy is
and what its
meaning is in your life this could
really change your life this is a book i
recommend for
for this person you know
um
you know i'm not out here saying
we have
29 people in the united stand all 29 of
you should read
karl popper's
philosophy of historicism i'm i'm not
i'm not
melissa here there are many books i've
recommended she read in particular this
is a book that meant a lot to me in my
life and i can sit here in an analytical
way and talk about why it was meaningful
to me
why it challenged or counteracted some
false assumptions i had in life right i
i can tell you why it was meaningful
important to me i can tell you why i
think it would be meaningful important
to this other guy this other youtuber
vegan foot soldier right but by the same
token if melissa actually said to me
after this
live stream oh hey well do you think i
should read this book i would say to her
no look honestly i think would be a
waste of your time i don't think it's
interesting for you i don't think it's
meaningful for you another another
really brief example of that but we had
this conversation in a bookstore uh
lately there was a nice big copy of
herodotus on the bookstore
shelf
in the last four and a half years or so
melissa has told me pardon me
melissa has heard me tell several
anecdotes about herodotus things come up
like oh yeah herodotus it says x y and z
uh it's a book i have read i have a
pretty good recollection of and there
was a nice just the actual book was a
good-looking book it was a good price it
was cheap it was good deal and melissa
was taking this out of the shelf and
saying oh maybe now is the time for her
to read herodotus
huge book by the way
and you know i said to her completely
honestly look even though i can tell you
why this was meaningful to me why this
was important
for me i can also tell you why i don't
think it's important for you why i don't
think it's
it's useful for you
now guys um
i could i could turn to the audience and
ask you if you guys have any stories of
this in the old days when we broadcast
on younow you guys were able to actually
jump in and talk to me by voice chat
those are the days we can't do that here
with youtube you'll be able to actually
split the screen and have two windows
with two cameras it was great it was a
great feature of you know
unfortunately younow is a dead website
it's a dead platform
um
there's a much darker side of this isn't
there
the the darker side is
people tell you
you can never make it as a musician just
quit just give up now
people tell you oh no you'll never be
able to get a phd in chemistry just
become a dental hygienist that's an easy
living for somebody like people
including authority figures whether it
be your school teacher
your guidance counselor
your priest your parents your
grandparents you know
um
people within the university system like
a professor
people are going to make a snap judgment
of you very often like gary vee based on
just a few sentences you said
and they will give you advice that
changes your life
forever
now
taking it outside of an institutional
setting
you know i can remember when i was
living in places like thailand laos and
cambodia
really relying
uh for colleagues
on advice
i could name all these people there's no
reason not to
there was a very shifty character
and i would guess he weighed about 400
pounds he was a very very fat white guy
and
[Music]
he was a homosexual with effeminate
behaviors
and he had a much younger boyfriend
slash husband who was not fat and was
not out of shape they were very seeing
them together
they were a very strange pair
and um
his whole manner and way of speaking to
you did not inspire trust he seemed like
a very shifty very strange
character and i spoke to a woman who was
a
white canadian the same age as myself
who was his employee and i was asking as
politely as possible look you know do
you think i can trust this guy do you
really think i should get involved with
this with this company and so on
and i remember at that time
she gave this completely glowing
completely positive account of her
experience as an employee and what a
good guy he was and everything else and
i made a series of decisions that really
changed my life for the next several
years on the basis of that conversation
like okay
this is what you said to me you know
okay well you know and that's someone
who's worked with him for
let's say she wore them for five years
i'm remembering it's ten years she'd
been there she'd been there for quite a
while maybe it was ten years and i'm
wrong i don't know anyway she'd been
working with this guy for for quite a
long time and so on
now my actual you guys will have guessed
my actual experience with this guy was
incredibly negative
um
i had a really negative impact on my
life made my life while i was in
this communist country laos much harder
in many ways
and
it would be an exaggeration to say he
was ripping me off
but it seemed to me he was really
misleading and manipulating a great many
people not just myself and having a
negative impact on their lives
and
i ran into this same
young woman again but you know again she
was the same age i was white canadian i
said well look you know this this is
what's been happening lately with this
guy the the head of the company the ceo
of the company
and she immediately just said to me yeah
well you know i hear about that all the
time he's done that to so many people it
seems like a pattern his behavior he
just does it again and again
you know you could have told me that
first before i rented an apartment and
unpacked my bags and said like i before
i was you know
making a whole lot of assumptions
including financial assumptions
because it's like
you know and that
young woman she doesn't make any money
out of lying to me or something she
doesn't have any agenda and indeed the
fact that she was so forthcoming when i
said that to her the second time we we
talked shows that she was in some ways
a very honest person so my point is here
you know
advice
um
she doesn't assume any responsibility
she doesn't assume any risk
right
now a few of you uh
know this about me oh that's funny nacho
says i remember gary vee yelling at
someone not to become a dentist
[Laughter]
so something paralyzing
uh for more than a year now
i've been talking to people
about going into film
perhaps i should say going further into
film
given that youtube itself is a kind of
filmmaking
um
but getting seriously interested in
raising the level of my own effort and
yeah raising the level amount of risk
too
and so
many different people told me
don't go to film school
don't go back to college don't try to
get a filter don't try to get any film
training at all just start making films
now the people who said this uh one i
can name him one is ali tabrizi you guys
remember him
i like to breezy former vegan youtuber
is one of the guys i talked to about
this so ali tabrizi used to be on
youtube and then under certain
extraordinary circumstances he made the
leap to
uh documentary filmmaking for netflix
and he has made one documentary film
that took him about five years i'm not
hating on him but that's the truth i
think that was at least five years of
that uh
what was it called was called fish
i was gonna say fish apocalypse that's a
better name
fishpocalypse
if anyone uses that title you owe me 10
fishpocalypse no
anyway i have made my own uh review
of that film on my own youtube channel
and mysteriously after i made this
review of his film he never spoke to me
again
life is long
maybe i'll hear from him five years now
or 10 years
you know he was so strident he was so
insistent to me no no no get out just
learn it yourself start doing just teach
yourself don't go back to college and
i'm going to come back to ali tabrizi
it's the main anthony i want to tell her
but you know one of the other people who
told me this
she is herself a professor in a
university department that does exactly
this they do cinema
filmmaking
uh photography you know several subjects
of it but
she's seeing the reality of every day
and she said to me
no joke she said you are better off just
watching youtube videos like this one
and she gave me a link to a channel it
was a youtube channel talking you
through cinematography filmmaking how to
use the equipment like you know you can
imagine there are these kinds of
channels self-help
educate yourself
that's someone she her whole career
she's earned her living at least for 20
years being a professor in one of those
departments and even she is saying
film school is a ripoff film school is a
joke okay
two things these people don't know me
right this isn't advice
for
me it's for some other person they're
thinking about it might be
advice for someone who is like
themselves right that might and it might
not they might have some stereotype
notion of who they're giving advice to
who a typical student is who a typical
person is receiving right this is this
problem and the other problem is they
accept no risk whatsoever
so i don't have to go on about this it's
just one example of my life and there
are many i'll give maybe maybe one more
on another topic you know
um
but you know
one of the things i said to ali
sorry he was saying with complete
certainty and he was speaking as a
successful filmmaker now he's got one
film but it's a successful film
i gave it a negative review in case you
haven't guessed but
it's on netflix it's had some number of
views
um
i said to him yeah the stuff you're
saying about you can just teach yourself
you can learn without any teachers you
can learn without going back to college
ally do you know
how to get up on a rooftop with two
actors and one camera and film a fist
fight
a very simple fundamental scene do you
know where to put the camera show up
with the actors you know where to block
it out
do you know how to film one person
punching another and in cinema it means
they're pretending to punch the other
you know the camera's at the right angle
so you have the illusion
that the fist is connecting again if you
guys don't
know i used to be in the theater so i do
know a little bit about this i've done
some of that stuff back when i was in
the theater like 100 years ago when i
was a young man i'm aware like put it
this way i'm aware that there are tricks
of the trade i am by no means a master
but like i'm aware there are things you
need to technically know about how to
safely block out
a fist fight
so fist fight on a rooftop you know can
you do it and if you can't
how are you gonna learn it and how so
i'm in my 40s how do you think i'm going
to learn it do you think someone's going
to take me aside and out of the goodness
of their heart like
you know train me in all that they know
expecting nothing in return
like again
somebody maybe these people are also
they're used to giving advice to someone
who's 18 years old or something and they
go you're young and good looking just go
to hollywood and someone's going to take
you aside and teach you what you know
maybe someone who wants to sleep with
you or something i don't know what the
motivations are maybe because you're
young and good looking there's some
assumption that someone is going to
share this kind of acknowledge you well
guess what i'm a very self-confident
slightly scary looking dude in my
mid-40s nobody's going to help me
nobody's going to work with me for free
nobody's going to mentor me
right how am i going to learn how to
film a fist fight in rooftop and we can
say this straight to ally to breezy the
maker of that film cause i'm sorry the
film was like on on a technical
filmmaking level
you can tell this guy doesn't know what
to do with the camera you know there's
no you know cinema in terms of
cinematography the film is garbage it's
not a well-filmed well edited well put
together
even the storyline or whatever you want
to say the the narrative coherence is
very poor in a lot of obvious ways it's
it's a bad film
i'm vegan
on some level of course i sympathize
with the messages trying to get a voice
but i can't say it's a well-made film
it's a poorly made film it looks like a
film made by an amateur looks like
exactly what it is a guy who went from
youtube to professional filmmaking with
no training and nobody to help him and
none of those skills neither in terms of
the storytelling the scripting
the cinematography whatever it looks
like a film made by a guy who could not
put together a fist fight on a rooftop
to save his life right
um
so you see you don't know
me
and you aren't really taking on any kind
of risk right what if this is the wrong
advice what if is this is the worst
advice what if you are crippling me for
the rest of my career because i didn't
take two years to go to a community
college and do a simple course in
cinematography where they teach you the
hands-on nuts and bolts of how to put
the camera together and how to position
it how to film that kind of scene
how to set up the lighting how to set up
the camera what angle the guy's face
needs to be at relative to the camera
when the fist goes by how to position
the microphones when you're filming a
dialogue like there are technical
aspects to cinematography that come up
again and again and again and you are
telling me to just move on with my
career without getting any of those
those fundamentals like it's not hard
for me to imagine that having incredibly
negative long-term consequences where
for the rest of my life i'm depending on
other people to bail me out to help me
with my own lack of confidence again and
again and again and these
i've talked this through with these
people everybody i've talked like it's
not just a one-way thing they don't just
send me advice and that's it
even though i'm engaging in some kind of
socratic
dialogue with them it seems very
difficult
to get other people to take seriously
the stakes
the risks that are involved in in giving
this kind of advice you know i just say
um
i can talk about languages and talk
about humanitarian work you know this
way i give so many examples
of people telling me like oh no you'll
never be able to
live in cambodia you'll never be able to
study this language you'll never be able
to go there and do that and where in
some cases literally what i said to them
was have you met me
like do you know who you're talking to
like my problem is not a lack of will
and self-discipline like if anything my
problem is that i'm so willing to give
it 110
you know getting nothing out of it and
ends in disaster you know like but no or
i'm so committed i'm so willing to move
to cambodia i'm still willing to move to
cambodia and learn the cambodian
language i'm willing to move to myanmar
and learn some ethnic minority language
you know the united me and my boy i'm
willing to commit to all kinds of
research broad projects and language
study and humanitarian work and go out
in the jungle i'm willing to do all
these things i'm willing to give it 110
but then when other people disappoint me
people or institutions let me down on
the other side like my personal virtue
alone can't carry this through to you
know a successful conclusion that's the
recurring light motif of my life that's
the recurring tragedy of my life you
know when i went to saskatchewan to
study korean ojibwe and one of the
reasons i keep saying korean ojibway is
because if i just say cree you don't
even know it's a language nahi away what
these are indigenous languages there but
yeah the courses i took they did deal
with both
korean and chile i have no problem
hitting the books i have no problem
memorizing like just the nouns and verbs
that comprise language i have no problem
with the grammar like i have no problem
with this level of self-discipline i did
that before i taught myself pali i can
work in a jungle with a flashlight
sleeping under a mosquito every night
sleeping under a mosquito net every
night and study a language i don't need
a teacher and i don't need anyone to
coddle me i don't want to help me right
but okay so you have that level of of
will and determination and
self-discipline and talent and ability
or whatever right okay but what happens
when everyone else lets you down what
happens when the problem is you can
depend on yourself
but you can't depend on anyone else
nobody ever talked any of that through
with me right they gave advice to me
that might have been good advice for
some other person in some other scenario
people gave me advice
that might be good for a really kind of
lazy
schlumpy stupid
uh privileged student at oxford or
cambridge someone born into tremendous
wealth who's able to go to cambridge or
oxford and study some obscure language
and get a phd in some area of study
they really have no talent or focus or
dedication or work ethic themselves but
they have all these wonderful people
around to help
you know
paid for of course paid for it at a high
price and why do people give that advice
probably because that's who they're used
to talking to that's who they presume
they're giving advice to or maybe hey
let's keep it all real that's who they
used to be themselves that's who they
were growing up that's how they came up
and where most of their advice is going
to revolve around
you know
your lack of work ethic your lack of
will and determination and it's going to
presume massive levels of kind of
subsidy assistance and help
coming from others you're surrounded by
highly competent people
assuring you through a phd program or
ushering you through a language program
or you know really even if you're
talking about research in the field or
humanitarian work that you have like a
whole team of people like in some
organization like uh med san san francie
uh you know doctors at borders like that
you're part of some united nations style
organization overseas that does
everything for you including your
laundry and now all you have to do is
show the hard work talent and
determination to get results because
everyone else has done all the all the
thinking and worrying for you well that
wasn't my situation
right
and again you know so you're giving
advice or you don't know pardon me you
don't know my situation you don't know
me
and you don't uh assume any sense of
responsibility
uh for the consequences
what if your advice goes horribly wrong
and
you know the final outcome is that
people's lives are
ruined
and you know not just for
a short time
i knew a girl
of
here i am saying girl again
well was she 20 years old i don't know
i knew when she was 19 20 or 21 years
old at university
in canada
she was born and raised in a muslim
family
and she wanted to go to the university
of toronto to study buddhism and put his
philosophy that was her big interest in
life and everyone at the university said
good for you by the way yes she was
extremely good-looking yes
i had the option to sleep with her and
ended up not doing it there's a reason
why we had this at the series of bizarre
conversations with her
immaterial this story but yeah probably
the fact that she was extremely good
looking was part of her experience of
this
she gets to the university and
everyone's happy to take her money and
everyone's happy to tell her whatever
she wants oh buddhism oh good we'll sign
you up for the buddhism program just
make sure you pay your money and select
your courses and sit down in class and
do the right thing
and the whole time that she was at the
university of toronto she was there for
four years there was only one class on
buddhism she was able to take she lost
the one opportunity of her life they
committed to her there was a program she
was supposed to be signed up for in in
buddhist studies or buddhism she instead
got a general ba in religion
and you know i knew exactly the
situation the department that time who
the professors were and what was what
was going on she had to do a whole pile
of courses on
christianity judaism and islam as one of
the professors said to me and uh i was
interviewing this professor for an
article he wanted to be quoted he said
what the university of toronto has is a
department of christianity masquerading
as a department of world religions
that they were pretending to teach
courses in these in these other subjects
when they really just didn't have the
didn't have the staff didn't have the
will didn't have the interest or what
have you you know well look you know is
that a small thing
you know there is no responsibility for
the outcomes
the people who gave her this bad advice
the people who said just sign up and pay
this money which was i'm sure for her a
lot of money i'm sure for her family a
lot of money just devote four years of
your life to this you can trust us
and she did not get an education in
buddhism she did not get an education
in buddhist philosophy and she would
have learned more not taking the courses
at all and her personal situation
exactly why i had a little bit of a
friendship with her and again it was
kind of like a doomed romance with her
it was this question whether or not
we're going to get get into bed with
each other um
you know the reality of her situation is
she was rebelling against her muslim
family she had been raised in the
islamic faith and she wanted out she
wanted something new something different
and it's not that rare a lot of muslims
are drawn to buddhism because they want
something that still will give them some
sense of
moral purpose and self-discipline and
sobriety there's certain kind of
characteristics they want from a
religion but they want something that
will set them free from the oppressive
irrationality of you know the the muslim
faith well you know
what's she going to do with the rest of
her career what she could do with the
rest of her her life personally like
philosophically this was the
philosophical education she wanted and
she she didn't get
right and you know she's supposed to go
on and get some kind of job after
getting this completely useless ba in
religion is she going to become a
chaplain for the canadian anglican
church she couldn't become a christian
missionary
christian missionary or christian
christian
uh you know minister you know so
you know i've been through
similar situations in my own life you
know again and again and again
um
at the deepest level i think the problem
that we have
is that we do not think of advice
as a product stick with me here for one
minute if i sell you
a product
right
i am responsible
forever
for that product if someone sells me
this and i turn it on and it lights on
fire
they're liable for the product right the
damage done by the fact that the battery
ignited on uh on fire and and so on and
so forth
i have even seen this with some miracle
weight loss remedies
when it is a product when it's something
you can touch or it's something you can
eat or something you can drink
we have this idea of personal
responsibility that if you made the
product if you made if you endorsed the
product if you made these claims about
the product that you are responsible
forever
you know economically morally and
otherwise as a matter of your personal
integrity if you are going to endorse
this product if you were going to sell
this product you are responsible for the
consequences forever and ever and for
some reason in our culture and in our
legal system and in our political system
we do not think that way about
advice
what would it mean to live in a society
where people are really responsible for
the outcomes
of their advice